Hello and welcome to Section 5 challenge overview.
For this section you're an analytics consultant helping a console games company conduct market research.
You have been supplying a data set consisting of two files console games a historic list of all console
games released between 1980 and 2015 and console dates and historic list of old console platforms such
as Wii PlayStation X-Box and information about.
You have been tasked to upload the data set into a database and draw from the following analytics for
this section.
You need to calculate what percent of global sales were made in North America extractive of the console
game titles ordered by platform name in ascending order and year of release in descending order.
Where is game Title IX track the first four letters of the publisher's name display all console platforms
which were released either just before Black Friday or just before Christmas ordered the platforms by
their longevity in ascending order.
Demonstrate how to deal with Game year column.
If the client wants to convert it to a different data type and provide recommendations on how to deal
with missing data in a file so this section is already a bit more advanced we can already see that we
will have to be working with missing data.
The worst nightmare of any data scientist but will show you the ways to do it or at least reduce the
amount of problems it will present to you later on.
And also we will be taking on a lot more queries will be learning a lot more functions and data types.
So now I'll go ahead and unload the data set again.
We open up a browser.
We go to super data assigned dot com slash as well.
We load the page up and here we scroll down to Section 5.
Working with data.
So in section 5 we have the challenge which is a media format of what we just read through postgresql
all applaud code.
Go ahead and the loaded console game sales and cancel dates.
So in this section we will be working with two tables.
So let's go ahead show all of our downloads or put it in a new folder.
Go back to the screen.
So here we have canceled dates.
Here we have canceled games and here we have Section 5 post upload code so just go ahead drag them to
wherever you want to be working with them.
For me the most convenient place is the desktop and I'll go and take a quick look what's ahead of us
soulless.
Open up console games as silly as you can see console games consists of 10 columns including a lot of
numbers so very few actually names and letters are used here.
Mostly it's numbers and it seems like it's ordered by rank in ascending order.
When lets open cancel dates now.
So if we open cancel dates as city we will see a much smaller much more compact dataset which only consists
of 30 platforms and it also consists only of 5 columns.
So this is a very small table.
A very neat one and very easy one to work with and I'll go ahead and make sure that our upload code
is all here and all ready to go.
Again it's all here all ready to go.
We have no mistakes so let's go straight to uploading the data into PGE admin.
I'll see you in the next lecture for that.